# AdvantageKit 2027 Alpha

> [!IMPORTANT]  
> **Please see the [known issues](#known-issues) section before installing or using AdvantageKit.**

To install the 2027 alpha of AdvantageKit, choose "WPILib: Manage Vendor Libraries" > "Install new libraries (online)" from the command palette in VSCode and paste the URL below. **Note that no template projects are currently available for 2027 releases.**

```
https://github.com/Mechanical-Advantage/AdvantageKit/releases/download/v27.0.0-alpha-3/AdvantageKit.json
```

Zip files for offline installation are attached to each GitHub release (linked below).

## Changelog

### [v27.0.0-alpha-3](https://github.com/Mechanical-Advantage/AdvantageKit/releases/tag/v27.0.0-alpha-3)

- **Compatibility: WPILib 2027.0.0-alpha-2, SystemCore release 163 & 166**
- Added support for WPILib Alpha 2
- Removed 2025 deprecated features (`Logger.getRealTimestamp` and duplicate `LoggedDashboard` classes)

### [v27.0.0-alpha-2](https://github.com/Mechanical-Advantage/AdvantageKit/releases/tag/v27.0.0-alpha-2)

- **Compatibility: WPILib 2027.0.0-alpha-1, SystemCore release 161 & 162**
- Added logging for landscape and portrait IMU orientations
- Added logging for wall clock validity and wait to rename logs until updated
- Added logging for CAN bus metadata (max bandwidth, FD state, availability, etc)
- Added logging for NT clients (name, connection status, IP address, etc)
  - This feature will also be included in the 2026 beta of AdvantageKit

### [v27.0.0-alpha-1](https://github.com/Mechanical-Advantage/AdvantageKit/releases/tag/v27.0.0-alpha-1)

- **Compatibility: WPILib 2027.0.0-alpha-1, SystemCore release 157**
- Updated battery, epoch time, team number, and watchdog logging for SystemCore compatibility
- Added support for VH-109 radio logging on SystemCore (requires team number to be configured)
- Added support for console logging from the robot program on SystemCore
- Added resource logging for CPU usage and temperature, memory usage, and storage usage
- Added network stats logging for CAN, Ethernet, Wi-Fi, and USB tethering
- Added system stats logging for IMU data
  - Note that this data is not used during replay, so the onboard IMU must be isolated to an IO implementation with standard input logging when accessed in robot code.

## Known Issues

### Joystick visualization with POVs is inaccurate in AdvantageScope

AdvantageKit records joystick POV values using a new format to align with the OS and WPILib, which causes the visualization in AdvantageScope to display inaccurate data. See [here](AdvantageScope.md#joystick-visualization-with-povs-is-inaccurate) for details.

### Console logging may be delayed by ~250ms

Console data captured by AdvantageKit may be delayed by up to ~250ms from when it was generated by the robot program. This is a side effect of the console capture pipeline through the OS and will be fixed in a future release.

### Timestamps in filenames use UTC

_Fixed by [SystemCore release 163](https://github.com/LimelightVision/systemcore-os-public?tab=readme-ov-file#alpha-4-release-163)_

~~Autogenerated filenames for log files represent timestamps in UTC instead of the correct local time. See [this issue](https://github.com/wpilibsuite/SystemCoreTesting/issues/102) for details.~~

### Log filenames do not include the date and time

_Fixed by [SystemCore release 161](https://github.com/LimelightVision/systemcore-os-public#alpha-3-7125-release-161)_

~~Time synchronization from the Driver Station is not currently implemented on SystemCore, so the robot program has no knowledge of the current date and time. Log filenames therefore use a randomized identifier rather than the date and time that the log was produced. When running on the field, the event name and match number will still be included.~~

### Log files are very zoomed out in AdvantageScope

_Fixed by AdvantageScope [v27.0.0-alpha-2](AdvantageScope.md#v2700-alpha-2)_

~~WPILib (and AdvantageKit by extension) currently use [epoch timestamps](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unix_time) on SystemCore, which are not properly handled by AdvantageScope. See [here](AdvantageScope.md#log-files-are-very-zoomed-out-by-default) for details.~~

### USB drives do not mount consistently

_Fixed by [SystemCore release 159](https://github.com/LimelightVision/systemcore-os-public#alpha-2-62825-release-159)_

~~When logging data to a USB drive (the default option for `WPILOGWriter`), note that USB mounting on SystemCore is currently unreliable. Users can also choose to log to the internal storage by specifying the path `/home/systemcore/logs`. See https://github.com/wpilibsuite/SystemCoreTesting/issues/31 for details.~~
